Add article showing some non-crypto use cases for the subtle-crypto API (#10950)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/web_crypto_api/non-cryptographic_uses_of_subtle_crypto/index.md

You may not even need to use the [Web Crypto API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) at all. Many of the things you would want to use cryptography for are already solved and part of the Web platform. For example, if you are worried about man-in-the-middle attacks, such as wifi hotspots reading the information between the client and the server, this is solved by ensuring correct use of [HTTPS](/en-US/docs/Glossary/https). Do you want to securely send information between users? Then you can set up a data connection between users using [WebRTC Data Channels](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API/Using_data_channels) which is encrypted as part of the standard.

> The [SubtleCrypto interface](/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto) provides low level primitives for working with cryptography, but implementing a system using these tools is a complicated task. Mistakes are hard to notice and the results can mean your user's data is not as secure as you think it is. Which could have catastrophic results if your users are sharing sensitive or valuable data.

Reviewer: Should this be

```suggestion
The [Crypto API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) provides low level primitives for working with cryptography, but implementing a system using these tools is a complicated task. Mistakes are hard to notice and the results can mean your user's data is not as secure as you think it is. Which could have catastrophic results if your users are sharing sensitive or valuable data.
```

Author: In this situation I am referencing just the "Subtle Crypto" portion which is named as such because of the subtleties involved in using it.

<output style="display:block;font-family:monospace;"></output>
```

Next we use the SubtleCrypto interface to process them. This works by:

- Reading the files to an [ArrayBuffer](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) using a [FileReader](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FileReader)
- Use `crypto.subtle.digest('SHA-256', arrayBuffer)` to digest the ArrayBuffer
- Convert the resulting hash (another ArrayBuffer) into a string so it can be displayed

```js
const output = document.querySelector('output');
const file = document.getElementById('file');
file.addEventListener('change', hashTheseFiles);

async function fileHash(file) {
  const arrayBuffer = await file.arrayBuffer();
	const hashAsArrayBuffer = await crypto.subtle.digest('SHA-256', arrayBuffer);
  const uint8ViewOfHash = new Uint8Array(hashAsArrayBuffer);
  const hashAsString = Array.from(uint8ViewOfHash).map(b => b.toString(16).padStart(2, '0')).join('');
	return hashAsString;
}

async function hashTheseFiles(e) {
  let outHTML = ''
  for (const file of this.files) {
    outHTML += `${file.name}    ${await fileHash(file)}`
  }
  output.innerHTML = outHTML;

> }

Reviewer: Can we get a few code comments - for instance stating what each function is doing

```

 {{EmbedLiveSample("hashing-a-file")}}

### Where would you use this?

At this point you may be thinking to yourself "*I can use this on my own website, so when users go to download a file we can ensure the hashes match to reassure the user their download is secure*". Unfortunately this has two issues that immediate spring to mind:

- Executable downloads should **always** be done over HTTPS. This prevents intermediate parties from performing attacks like this so it would be redundant.
- If the attacker is able to replace the download file on the original server, then they can also simply replace the code which invokes the SubtleCrypto interface to bypass it and just state that everything is fine. Probably something sneaky like replacing [strict equality](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Equality_comparisons_and_sameness#strict_equality_using_), which can be a pain to spot in your own code:

```js
--- if (checksum === correctCheckSum) return true;

> +++ if (checksum = correctCheckSum) return true;

Author: I'm showing how a sneaky person could modify your codebase to subtly bypass the hash check in a way that would be a pain in the arse to spot.

```html
<h3>Demonstration of how git uses SHA1 for files</h3>

<label>Choose file(s) to hash <input type="file" id="file" name="file" multiple></label>

<output style="display:block;font-family:monospace;"></output>
```

```js
const output = document.querySelector('output');
const file = document.getElementById('file');
file.addEventListener('change', hashTheseFiles);

async function fileHash(file) {
  const arrayBuffer = await file.arrayBuffer();
  const uint8View = new Uint8Array(arrayBuffer);
  const length = uint8View.length;
  const encoder = new TextEncoder();
  const view = encoder.encode('blob ' + length + '\0');
  const newBlob = new Blob([view.buffer, arrayBuffer], {
      type: 'text/plain'
  });
  return hashToString(await crypto.subtle.digest('SHA-1', await newBlob.arrayBuffer()));
}

function hashToString(arrayBuffer) {
  const uint8View = new Uint8Array(arrayBuffer);
  return Array.from(uint8View).map(b => b.toString(16).padStart(2, '0')).join('');
}

async function hashTheseFiles(e) {
  let outHTML = ''
  for (const file of this.files) {
    outHTML += `${file.name}    ${await fileHash(file)}`
  }
  output.innerHTML = outHTML;
}

> ```

Reviewer: Same as above - few comments would be good
